README.md, before:

Lambdas in C++
==============

In C++ a _lambda expression_ or _lambda function_ is a [closure][1]: an unnamed (anonymous) function that is passed inline - usually to another function. Lambda expressions are a concise way of creating simple function objects.

If necessary, lambda expressions can capture variables from their context.

Lambda expressions are useful for passing an operation as an argument into an algorithm.

Using a lambda expression is like using a function pointer, but without the need to create a named object.

Syntax
------
Full syntax:

```c++
// [captures] (params) -> returnType { function body }

// Concrete example: capture a by reference; parameter is int; lambda expression returns an int 
int a = 10;
ForEach(intVec, [&a] (int x) -> int{ return a * x; });
```

If the return type can be deduced from the return statement in the function body, the return type can be ommitted:

```c++
// [captures] (params) { function body }
// Concrete example: No captures, parameter is int, lambda expression returns an int
ForEach(intVec, [] (int x) { return x * x; });
```
If the lambda expression takes no arguments:

```c++
// [captures] { function body }
// Concrete example: no captures, no parameters:
ForEach(intVec, []{ return 0; }
```

For other syntax options: [https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/lambda][2]

Generic Lambda Expression
-------------------------
Lambda expressions can take arguments that have arbitrary types.

If a parameter is marked `auto`, the type can be deduced:

```c++
ForEach(intsVec, [] (auto x) { return x * x });
```
In this case, the lambda expression becomes an instance of type:

```c++
class // unnamed
{
public:
	template<typename T>
	T operator() (T x) const { return x * x }
};

```

If a generic lambda has no captures, the closure type has a "public non-virtual non-explicit const conversion function template to pointer to function" [see the standards document][4].

Passing Generic Lambda to Template Function
-------------------------------------------
In the following example, `ForEach()` can transform elements of a vector - the type of the element being generic.

The generic lambda is straightforward enough, but note the template function signature - the 

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

template <typename T, typename Func>
void ForEach(std::vector<T>& container, Func f)
{
	for (auto& el : container) {
		el = f(el);	
	}
}

// Equivalent to the above - less typing with `auto`!
void ForEachAuto(std::vector<auto>& container, auto const& lambdaExpression)
{
	for (auto& el : container) {
		el = lambdaExpression(el);	
	}
}

int main()
{
	std::vector<int> intVec = { 0,1,2,3,4,5 };
	ForEach(intVec, [](auto x){ return x * x; });
	// intVec is now { 0,1,4,9,16,25 }	

	std::vector<double> doublesVec = { 1.1,2.2,3.3 };
	ForEach(doublesVec, [](auto x){ return x * x; });
	// doublesVec is now { 1.21, 4.84, 10.89 }

	return 0;
}
```

Note that the definition of the generic function that accepts the lambda as a parameter can either use `template` syntax or the `auto` keyword.

Captures
--------
The captured variables can be passed by value or by reference.

### Copy Values
Implicitly capture all automatic variables by value - copy values into the lambda expression:

```c++
[=]
```
### Pass by Reference

Implicitly capture all automatic variables by reference - copy references into the lambda expression:

```c++
[&]
```

### Override the Default Capture Method
You can set a default capture method and override this for individual variables:

```c++
// Capture by reference, except a which is captured by copy:
[&, a]{}

// Capture all by copy, except a which is captured by reference:
[=, &a]
```

References
----------
* [C++ Standards Committee ISOCPP][4]: Lambda expressions
* [Closures][1]
* [Syntax][2]
* [Generic Lambdas][3]

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closure_(computer_programming)
[2]: https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/lambda
[3]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/17233649/3590673
[4]: http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2013/n3690.pdf#subsection.5.1.2

Commit message:

Notes re auto type deduction.

README.md, after:

Lambdas in C++
==============

In C++ a _lambda expression_ or _lambda function_ is a [closure][1]: an unnamed (anonymous) function that is passed inline - usually to another function. Lambda expressions are a concise way of creating simple function objects.

If necessary, lambda expressions can capture variables from their context.

Lambda expressions are useful for passing an operation as an argument into an algorithm.

Using a lambda expression is like using a function pointer, but without the need to create a named object.

Syntax
------
Full syntax:

```c++
// [captures] (params) -> returnType { function body }

// Concrete example: capture a by reference; parameter is int; lambda expression returns an int 
int a = 10;
ForEach(intVec, [&a] (int x) -> int{ return a * x; });
```

If the return type can be deduced from the return statement in the function body, the return type can be ommitted:

```c++
// [captures] (params) { function body }
// Concrete example: No captures, parameter is int, lambda expression returns an int
ForEach(intVec, [] (int x) { return x * x; });
```
If the lambda expression takes no arguments:

```c++
// [captures] { function body }
// Concrete example: no captures, no parameters:
ForEach(intVec, []{ return 0; }
```

For other syntax options: [https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/lambda][2]

Generic Lambda Expression
-------------------------
Lambda expressions can take arguments that have arbitrary types.

If a parameter is marked `auto`, the type can be deduced:

```c++
ForEach(intsVec, [] (auto x) { return x * x });
```
In this case, the lambda expression becomes an instance of type:

```c++
class // unnamed
{
public:
	template<typename T>
	T operator() (T x) const { return x * x }
};

```

If a generic lambda has no captures, the closure type has a "public non-virtual non-explicit const conversion function template to pointer to function" [see the standards document][4].

Passing Generic Lambda to Template Function
-------------------------------------------
In the following example, `ForEach()` can transform elements of a vector - the type of the element being generic.

The generic lambda is straightforward enough, but note the template function signature - one way or the other, you should let the compiler deduce the type for the Lambda expression.

```c++
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>

template <typename T, typename Func>
void ForEach(std::vector<T>& container, Func f)
{
	for (auto& el : container) {
		el = f(el);	
	}
}

// Equivalent to the above - less typing with `auto`!
void ForEachAuto(std::vector<auto>& container, auto const& lambdaExpression)
{
	for (auto& el : container) {
		el = lambdaExpression(el);	
	}
}

int main()
{
	std::vector<int> intVec = { 0,1,2,3,4,5 };
	ForEach(intVec, [](auto x){ return x * x; });
	// intVec is now { 0,1,4,9,16,25 }	

	std::vector<double> doublesVec = { 1.1,2.2,3.3 };
	ForEach(doublesVec, [](auto x){ return x * x; });
	// doublesVec is now { 1.21, 4.84, 10.89 }

	return 0;
}
```

Note that the definition of the generic function that accepts the lambda as a parameter can either use `template` syntax or the `auto` keyword.

Captures
--------
The captured variables can be passed by value or by reference.

### Copy Values
Implicitly capture all automatic variables by value - copy values into the lambda expression:

```c++
[=]
```
### Pass by Reference

Implicitly capture all automatic variables by reference - copy references into the lambda expression:

```c++
[&]
```

### Override the Default Capture Method
You can set a default capture method and override this for individual variables:

```c++
// Capture by reference, except a which is captured by copy:
[&, a]{}

// Capture all by copy, except a which is captured by reference:
[=, &a]
```

References
----------
* [C++ Standards Committee ISOCPP][4]: Lambda expressions
* [Closures][1]
* [Syntax][2]
* [Generic Lambdas][3]

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closure_(computer_programming)
[2]: https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/lambda
[3]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/17233649/3590673
[4]: http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2013/n3690.pdf#subsection.5.1.2
